src/pages/posts/new-website-built-with-astro.md, before:

---
setup: |
  import Layout from '../../layouts/PostLayout.astro'
title: New Website Built with Astro, Tailwind and Markdown
publishDate: Jan 29 2021
name: Tim Long
description: Just a Hello World Post!
---


Aliquam nec lectus et lectus egestas porttitor eu eu libero. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Cras sagittis eros vitae nunc ullamcorper volutpat. Nulla facilisi. Fusce ultricies tristique porta. Nulla eros ante, suscipit eget gravida non, facilisis sit amet neque. Aenean rutrum rutrum ornare. Sed est lorem, euismod ut elit vitae, mollis tempus ex. Etiam vel varius sapien, luctus rutrum odio. Pellentesque a dui lobortis, vestibulum orci et, accumsan lacus. Etiam placerat metus sapien, et convallis nisi faucibus vel. Fusce sollicitudin nisl at justo scelerisque, non luctus neque consectetur. Suspendisse feugiat lacus sapien, in semper augue viverra a.

```html
<div class="flex flex-col items-center">
    bada bing bada boom
</div>
```

Sed rhoncus laoreet convallis. Quisque in auctor dui. Etiam vel libero ornare, feugiat turpis et, efficitur ex. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Suspendisse vulputate ex at augue euismod elementum. Fusce at libero arcu. Proin rhoncus augue at faucibus convallis. Aliquam rhoncus sapien sed lacus aliquam, non vestibulum quam aliquam. Suspendisse massa eros, scelerisque nec ex id, bibendum luctus sem. Aliquam et interdum velit, id porta urna. Praesent viverra volutpat lectus, ac rutrum est luctus at. Proin sit amet felis condimentum, volutpat elit sed, ornare nisi. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam malesuada molestie elit, id lobortis metus rhoncus sit amet.

Aliquam eu metus mauris. In semper molestie est, ac tristique ipsum bibendum hendrerit. Sed vitae rhoncus tellus. Vivamus vitae ante erat. Nam maximus scelerisque venenatis. Aliquam semper nibh a nisi ultrices commodo. Sed placerat porttitor urna id gravida. Aliquam eu mi felis. Nullam in rhoncus leo. Maecenas id dictum sapien. Donec imperdiet odio at dolor tempus tempor. Pellentesque sed magna nisi. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Phasellus vitae lacinia neque, quis vulputate elit. Maecenas a luctus diam.

Commit message:

started writing firs blog post

src/pages/posts/new-website-built-with-astro.md, after:

---
setup: |
  import Layout from '../../layouts/PostLayout.astro'
title: New Website Built with Astro
publishDate: Jan 29 2021
name: Tim Long
description: Just a Hello World Post!
heroImage: /public/assets/blog/WebsiteScreenShot.png
---

Happy new year! I know it is the end of January, and therefore I'm saying this about a month too late, but it is never too late to start a blog and redesign your site. 

I set this site up last summer as a quick portfolio for a job that I was applying for (and that I now have 😃). And I'm happy to say that I really love this new position and it has brought a new level of excitement to me with web development. So here I am, going into February with the intention of developing my web development career.

The site I threw together was made with Gatsby. I recently stumbled across Astro (probably via Twitter) and liked the sound of it. I'm happy to say that I loved putting this site together and their documentation made it extremely easy to do so.

Because of how great their documentation is, I would walk through the entire process of setting it up:

## Planning + Designing

## Installing Astro

## Installing Tailwind

## Setting up Styles 

## Creating the Base Layout

## Putting together the Posts view

## Building the Post page

## Styling Tweaks + Finishing Touches

## Code Highlighting with Prism
